Okay.
So I am super excited to introduce the project that we're going to be building out together over this
course.
And it is a jobs site or a career site, and it is strongly inspired by the official Google Careers
website.
So first up, you can head to careers that Google.com to see this site in action.
And I also have it loaded right here on the screen.
So there are a couple of reasons why I chose this project.
First up, this website is built with views.
Yes.
Which is fitting because we're going to be solving the exact same problems that Google developers had
to solve with the exact same technologies.
So it is a real world problem and a real world website.
We're not just building a sample app from scratch that has no practicality.
This is a real world project that delivered value to a real company.
Secondly, this business domain is not overwhelmingly complex.
It's a pretty simple website in its design.
The user is able to navigate here.
They're able to fill out some criteria, such as a role they're interested in or a location or an educational
climate.
And then they're going to be able to see a couple of jobs that fit that criteria.
So the domain is simple in a sense, but there's actually also a lot of hidden complexity.
And we're going to be able to learn just about every major feature of view simply by building out this
site.
This site at its core is really two pages.
It's this page right here, the main page, as well as the job results page where the user actually
sees the jobs.
And we're going to show you that page in just a second.
So as we mentioned in the previous lesson view is a library for building out reactive frontend interfaces
and the word reactive means able to react to change.
That change can come in many different ways.
It can come automatically.
It can come from a user interaction, or it can happen when the website receives new data from an API
and many other ways as well.
So let's pause for a second here and think about the reactivity that we can observe in this app.
Some of it is kind of prominent and in front of us, and some of it is more hidden.
And then we're just going to quickly talk about some of the ways that this website is reacting to change.
All right.
So obviously, one of the first ones that immediately jumps out at me is this content right here.
Every couple of seconds, this action verb right here is dynamically changing.
And as a user, we're not doing anything to trigger this.
It's just an automatic part of this website at an interval.
We're switching the word we see right here.
Here's another example of reactivity.
Even something as simple as the user typing is an event.
It is something that the user is doing to the website that requires it to react.
So simply by clicking into here and typing something like View Developer, we are interacting with this
page and view is going to help us to be able to react to that kind of information.
You'll also notice as soon as we type that we have this thing pop up right here, 300 jobs matched and
obviously that content is being conditionally rendered based on what we've entered here.
So notice that the website is not refreshing itself.
Rather, it is dynamically updating itself right here or right here based on user interaction, based
on the passage of time, etc..
But it gets even more complex than that.
So here's something that is a little bit hidden.
Notice that we have a main navigation menu right here, and then below it we have a sub navigation menu.
It's this section right here where we have save jobs and job alerts.
Notice as well that I am logged into my Google website account.
Now notice what happens when I log out.
So I'm going to click this icon and I'm going to click sign out.
Notice that the sub nav disappears entirely.
Right.
So parts of this website are being conditionally rendered based on a condition being true, based on
a state, in this case, the state of whether I am logged in or logged out.
Also notice as well what happened here on the right hand side here.
We formerly had my profile image and now we have a sign in button and we've accomplished that dynamic
switching without reloading the whole page.
So obviously what the website is thinking is if the user is logged out, give them a signing button
and if the user's logged in, show them their profile image.
And that's the kind of reactive, conditional logic that view is going to be able to help us build out.
All right.
So this is the first of two primary pages we're going to be building out.
Let's now go to the jobs page and observe that.
So here is the jobs page.
And as you can see on the right hand side, we're going to have a whole bunch of job listings.
And as I scroll down, you're going to see as well that there are actually many different pages.
Once I reached the end of the section, you'll see that we have a next button and when I click next,
once again the page does not refresh.
Rather, we simply get a fresh batch of jobs and the rendered right here on the screen, which means,
of course, that view is taking the former boxes right here and replacing them with new content without
reloading the whole page.
Now, of course, another big part of this page is page, and its dynamism is this section right here
where the user can filter these jobs by a variety of criteria.
So notice right here, if I, for example, expand this degree section and I click on bachelors, there's
a lot of things that are going to happen.
So notice here when I click this first step, of course the checkbox changes, but then the jobs on
the right automatically update to show only the job that fit this criteria.
These are the jobs that require a bachelor's degree.
There's another section that you may have missed.
This section right here displays the total number of jobs that matched a criteria.
And every time I either add or remove a criteria, that number will update to reflect the correct number.
So for example, if I expand this and add another filter like I'm only interested in full time jobs,
notice once again this number updates and the jobs on the right update as well.
And all of these criteria, by the way, exist simultaneously.
So the logic has to be smart enough to account for the degree, the job type and the potential organization
right here, the skills and qualifications and perhaps even a text search term.
And notice that almost the entire UI is reacting to a simple checkbox.
Click.
This section is changing right here.
This section is changing right here, etc. So there is a lot of complexity to reveal in these two pages
and we're going to be tackling all of it and showing you how view helps us solve these kinds of problems.
In web development, again, View is helping us to react to changes and dynamically update the interface
with logic that we define for determining how the components of the page the pieces should adjust themselves
as the user interacts with the page and as various events happen.
All right.
So this is going to be the project, and we're going to be building out just about this entire thing.
It's going to look the exact same way.
It's going to function the exact same way.
And we're going to build out this real world project inspired by an actual real world view app built
by Google developers.
All right.
So super exciting stuff.
And I will see you in the next lesson.